We're going to lift verses 34 and 35.
John chapter 13, verses 34 and 35, when you with me say amen.
The Bible says, a new command I give you, love one another.
As I have loved you, so you must love one another.
By this, everyone will know that you are my disciples.
If you love one another, amen.
On this day, right after Valentine's Day, I want to preach from the topic, the mark
Mark.
Okay, okay, all right.
I was gonna say, little man got lost.
Lord, we thank you for this day.
We thank you, God, for your word.
Thank you for the opportunity to preach and hear your word.
Let your word fall on fresh and fertile ground.
Move every distraction.
Let us hear from you.
Have your way in Jesus name.
Amen.
Life is full of tension.
If it's not tension about one thing, then it's tension about something else.
If it's not tension about partisan politics in Washington, DC, then it's tension about the blurred lines between amateur and professional athletics.
It's not tension about funding for PWIs, virtues, HBCUs, then it's tension about
increasing ethnic diversity in these United States of America.
If it's not tension about gentrification in urban centers across our world, that it's tension between tradition versus traditionalism.
It's not tension between different generational preferences
and styles than its tension about the use of technology.
It's not tension about one thing, that it's tension about something else.
According to this familiar New Testament text that we find in John chapter 13, we encounter the tension that exists between the old and the new.
According to this particular text, Jesus shares with his disciples a new commandment.
According to our Savior and Lord, Jesus says, love one another the way I have loved you.
The old command to love, we find in Leviticus 19, Deuteronomy 6,
In Mark 12, the great commandment that says, love God with all your mind, heart, soul, and strength, and love your neighbor as you love yourself.
But now here, as Jesus prepares for his crucifixion and resurrection, Jesus shares not the old command, but a new command.
Jesus doesn't say love your neighbor as you love yourselves.
But now Jesus raises the bar.
Jesus says, I want you to love your neighbor, not as you love yourselves, but love your neighbor the way I have loved you.
As Jesus prepares for his crucifixion and resurrection, Jesus is challenging, commanding and calling his disciples and followers
to love one another the way he has loved them.
According to this text, more significantly, Jesus says, as you love one another the way I have loved you.
Men and women will know that you are my disciples.
According to Jesus,
Love is the mark of Christian living.
People will know who we are and whose we are as we love one another the way Jesus has loved us.
Unless we love one another the way Jesus loves us.
People will not know who we are or whose we are.
Love is the mark of Christian living.
Let me say that again.
While love is the mark of Christian living, if we're honest with ourselves on this Sunday morning, there's so many people in the body of Christ called church who lift other minor marks.
as the standard for Christian living, not the virtue and value of love.
Love, let me say it again, is the mark of Christian living.
What you wear to church on Sunday is good.
But what we wear is not the mark of Christian living.
How long you've been a member of watch chapel or some other church is good.
But longevity of membership is not the mark of Christian living.
Using our gifts, abilities and talents is good.
But using our gifts, abilities and talents in the Lord's house is not the mark of Christian living.
Who your family is, what your mom or daddy did in the church is good.
But that's not the mark of Christian living.
Being able to quote scripture from Genesis 1 to Revelation 22 is good.
But being able to quote scripture is not the mark of Christian living.
Shouting on Sunday, emotional expression is good.
But emotional expression is not the mark of Christian living.
Political affiliation.
Y'all ain't talking to me.
It's good.
But that ain't the mark of Christian living.
Where you stand on a particular political issue is good.
But that's not the mark of Christian living.
Not smoking, snorting, ingesting, or drinking.
Amen, somebody.
Ain't the mark of Christian living.
But love is the mark of Christian living.
Come on, help me do my good preaching on this Sunday morning.
Sometimes we get it confused, we get it twisted, and we think other smaller, more superficial things are the mark of Christian living.
But how we love one another is the true mark and standard of Christian living.
I wish I had time to preach this the way I wanted to preach it.
You can be dressed to the nines, but mean as a snake.
You can quote scripture, but not have the love of God in your heart.
You can come to church every Sunday, walk up and down the aisles, shout in and out the church.
But if we don't have the love of Jesus Christ, nobody will know who we are and who's we are.
We could have the popular reputation as a popular church, but unless we love one another, we are sounding brass.
And superficial saints love is the mark of Christian living.
Jesus says, as you love one another the way I have loved you, then people will know who you are as my followers.
Can I keep on preaching?
Love.
Not like.
Not lust.
Love.
Not avoiding people.
Not justification.
But love is the mark of Christian living.
How should I love my neighbor?
Not the way I love myself.
That's the old commandment.
Jesus has raised the bar.
He says, I want you to love your neighbor the way I love you.
If we're going to love one another the way Jesus loves us, we have to love one another's
If you know something about John chapter 13, you know before we get to this text where Jesus talks about love earlier in the text, Reverend Robinson, Jesus is doing one of the most humiliating deeds of service.
Jesus is washing the feet.
of his disciples.
And Jesus demonstrates his love for his disciples by serving them.
These are not disciples who've been wearing winged tips and Bostonians and Stacey Adams.
They hadn't been walking on carpet.
More than likely,
They got bunions, corns, and rusty dusties.
But Jesus comes with a towel, gets on his knees, and washes the feet of his disciples.
I'm sisters, I ain't talking about pretty feet.
What you done went to see sister so-and-so on Monday and got the nice pedicures.
I'm talking about grown men feet.
Your mind washing pretty toes.
Come on now, let me.
A towel and water and a basin, washing the feet of grown men who walk at least 10 miles every day.
And Jesus demonstrates love through service.
And let me say this, if you have never served somebody, you can't say you love them.
I ain't talking about serving the Lord.
I'm talking about serving your spouse.
Oh, I'm talking good now.
I'm talking about serving your siblings.
I'm talking about serving your children.
I'm talking about serving your coworker, your neighbor.
I'm talking about serving somebody who looks like you, who lives with you, who is in your presence.
We don't mind being served, but some of us are so sanctified and holy that we can't serve other folk.
But unless we are willing to serve, you don't love somebody.
Can I preach this?
Love requires service.
That means I got to be quiet and just get the water.
That means sometimes I can't suck my teeth.
I got to go the second mile.
That means I can't bump my gums, put my hands on my hips, and say, what's wrong with your feet?
What's wrong with your hands?
If you're willing to serve, if you love them, we are willing to serve.
Oh, Perry, you preaching good right now.
Hey, man.
This on the other day after Valentine's Day, you talking good now.
If we love one another, we will serve.
But if we love one another the way Jesus loved us, we won't just serve.
We will pray for each other.
Jesus loved not just by serving.
Jesus loved by praying
for these men who walked and talked with him every day.
Before he called Peter, James, and John, he prayed about them.
He called Thaddeus Bartholomew and Simon.
He prayed about them.
Before he called the 12, he prayed about them.
And once he called them and God sent them, he kept praying for them constantly, continuously on a daily basis.
Don't tell me, you love me if you don't pray for me.
Don't tell me you love that man or woman if you don't pray for them.
Don't tell me you love them children if you don't pray for them.
Don't tell me you love your coworkers.
You love your church.
If you don't pray for your church and pray for your coworkers.
Don't tell me you love America.
If you don't pray for America.
Don't tell me you love the state of North Carolina and Wake County.
If you don't pray for the people, you claim and profess to love.
Love requires service, but it also requires prayerfulness.
I wish I could raise the question on this Sunday morning.
I wish I could raise the question about how much time we spend praying for folk and not dogging out people.
I wish I could raise the question, how much time do I pray for them, or do I gossip about them?
How much time do I pray for that group of people versus me condemning them?
How much time do I pray for my spouse, my siblings, my children, my grandchildren, my pastor, my church family versus innuendo, gossip, rumor, and mess?
My gosh, we can gossip.
We can talk turkey.
We can spread in the window.
I'm telling the truth, ain't I?
But how much time do I pray for the people I profess to love?
Girl, I love you.
God knows you fine.
Is she fine enough for you to pray for?
I love my children.
But do you pray for the children that you say you love?
That's my man.
Don't be looking at him.
Do you pray for Him as much as you worried about Him staying at foodline too long?
She got to get a foodline that long.
If I love you,
I'm gonna serve.
If I love you, I'm gonna pray for you.
But not just service, not just prayerfulness, but if we love one another the way Jesus loved us and loves us, we will love indiscriminately.
We don't have a problem liking and loving people that we like.
That like you is easy to love you, but diagnose it.
If I don't like you, it's hard to love you.
Come on, I'm doing my good preaching right now, huh?
Because we got folk that we like and we got folk we don't like.
So the Lord never calls us to like, but God calls us to love.
And He doesn't call us to love selectively with discrimination or selectivity, but He calls us to love the way He loves us, which is indiscriminately.
That means I got to broaden my horizons.
I got to ask God to enlarge my heart.
I got to ask God to help me get rid of the strongholds of racial prejudice, economic classism, condemnation, colorism.
Can I keep on preaching on this Sunday morning?
Because all of us got folk that we are challenged.
and hard pressed to love.
Can I talk good for another five minutes?
If you vote like me, I don't mind.
You live in a nice neighborhood, I don't mind.
If you smell good like me on Sunday morning, I don't mind.
If you think like me, I don't mind.
If you smile,
Like I smile or laugh at my jokes, I don't mind.
But when you vote another way, when you live in a neighborhood, I deem as the hood.
When you don't think like I think, when you don't act like I act, when you don't smell like I smell on Sunday morning, when you don't bring your kids to church and they run up and down the street in the neighborhood, when you, I think you're making my property value dip and not rise, then I'm hard pressed to love indiscriminately.
But I need about a thousand people.
on this Sunday morning to recognize where God brought you from.
I need about 900 to remember where God brought you from and to think about you ain't always been in church on Sunday morning, but God loves you anyhow.
You hadn't always been a deacon in the church on Sunday morning.
You hadn't always been in the choir stand, but God loved us anyhow.
You hadn't been here for HBC, young day 10 years ago, but God loves us indiscriminately.
Can I preach on this Sunday morning?
Do I have anybody who knows about the love of Almighty God?
It reaches the highest mountain.
It flows to the lowest valley.
It's for Pookie and Baby.
Do I have a witness in here?
It's for the PhD and the GED.
It's for the Democrat and the Republican.
The love of God is too hard to get over, too low to get under.
And thank God, for the love of Almighty God, that is indiscriminate.
God loves you.
Can I close the way I want to close?
Can I preach the way I want to preach?
I don't care who you are, what you've done.
God loves you.
I don't care how you vote.
Don't care where you live.
God loves you.
Don't care what you look like.
Don't care what you've been through.
God loves you.
And if God can love me, who am I not to love you?
Who are we not to love one another?
If God be for me, who in the world can be against me?
If God can love us in the name Harry, that I'll to love you?
Does anybody know about the love of Almighty God?
I'm not Tumbow God liking us.
I'm Tumbow God loving us.
It reaches to the highest mountain.
It flows to the lowest valley.
Anybody here because God loved you?
Is anybody in church today?
Because God loved you.
I was sinking deep in sin, far from the peaceful shore, very deeply stained within, sinking to rise no more.
But the master of the sea heard by despair and cry.
And from the waters he lifted me
Now safe, am I?
Love!
I feel like Halloween one time.
I said love lifted me when nothing else could help.
Love!
Not my education.
Not our car.
Love!
Not where I live.
Hallelujah!
Thank God!
That he loves me.
Hallelujah.
Stand to your feet church.
Tell your neighbor he loves you.
Look on the other side, say he loves you.
If God can love me, how many of us grown folk know yourself?
You know what you done did?
What you didn't do?
And you can say, praise God, He loves me anyhow.
I wish I had some real saints in here.
I ain't some of the funny, duddy crowd.
I'm some of the real saints who know God has loved you unconditionally.
Our call is to love one another the way he's loved us.
That means prayerfully.
That means I can serve you.
That means I can love you even if I don't like how you vote.
I can love you indiscriminately because he loves me indiscriminately.
If somebody right now, my sister, my brother, you're here.
You've never been saved.
You've never accepted Jesus as your savior.
I want you to walk down the aisle right now to accept Jesus as Savior and Lord of your life.
You're here this morning.
You're not here by accident.
I want you to come from wherever you are.
Come on, brother.
Come on, sister.
Or you're saved, but you don't have a church home and you need to be connected to a church.
That's gonna teach and preach the love of Almighty God for everybody.
Come on, brother.
The Holy Spirit's telling me there are some people here who need a church home.
You need a Savior.
I want you to come from wherever you are.
I don't know if there's anybody in overflow today, but come from wherever you are, sister.
Come from wherever you are, brother.
There may be a family here right now.
You've yet to accept Jesus as your Savior.
You're saved, but you don't have a church home.
Walk down the aisle right now.
HBCU Sunday, but it's salvation Sunday for somebody.
It's church membership Sunday for somebody.
Come on, brother.
Come on, sister.
Wherever you are, we have time for you.
Amen.
The band is done.
Ain't no games on the day.
Amen.
We got time.
Come on, brother.
Come on, sister.
Wherever you are.
Yeah, I'm talking to you.
Today's the day for you to accept Jesus.
Today is the day for you to find a church home.
Get grounded, get rooted in our church family.
I want you to ask your neighbor, watch the apple till you're right or till you're left.
Are you saved?
If they say no, say, do you want to accept Jesus today?
Tell them I'll walk with you.
Then I want you to ask them the second question.
Do you want to join the church today?
Do you wanna join the church today?
Well, draw somebody who needs a savior.
Draw somebody who needs a church home.
Draw somebody who needs a stronger, deeper relationship with you.
In Jesus' name, amen.
Come on, brother, come on, sister, walk down the aisle, come on.
Is there somebody right now who wants to accept Jesus as the Savior who wants to unite with watch chapel?
I'm talking to you, amen.
Be seated, watch chapel, amen.
Tell your neighbors, good to see you today.
We're about to say the benediction
But I want to remind everybody, Wednesday 12 noon to 130, right under the overhang, importation of ashes.
Wednesday 12 noon to 130.
On Wednesday night, seven o'clock p.m., we will be here.
Ash Wednesday worship.
Springfield Baptist Church will be our guest.
We're not gonna be here all night, amen.
As you invite people to your home, you want to be there.
Amen.
Thursday night, 7 p.m., our civic engagement experience.
Right here at Watch Chapel, $5 registration in the multi-purpose room.
Don't forget vendors, small business owners, authors, African-American marketplace,
February 28th, from 11 to four, amen.
Let's stand for the benediction.
Wily, nickel, and myself will be out in the lobby shaking hands, amen, and then meet the pastor right after, amen, in the multipurpose room.
May the grace of our Lord and Savior, the love of God, the fellowship of the Holy Spirit,
Rest, rule and abide with us until we shall meet again.
People of God said amen.
Amen.